Kubernetes — also known as “k8s” or “kube” — is a container orchestration 
platform for scheduling and automating the deployment, management, and 
scaling of containerized applications.

Orchestration is the coordination and management of multiple computer systems, 
applications and/or services, stringing together multiple tasks in order to 
execute a larger workflow or process.

container orchestration—a tool that automates the deployment, management, 
scaling, networking, and availability of container-based applications.

Kubernetes was first developed by engineers at Google before being open 
sourced in 2014. It is a descendant of Borg, a container orchestration 
platform used internally at Google. Kubernetes is Greek for helmsman or 
pilot, hence the helm in the Kubernetes logo.

An organization might have hundreds or thousands of containers — operations teams 
needed to schedule and automate container deployment, networking, scalability, 
and availability. And so, the container orchestration market was born.

What does Kubernetes do?
    Kubernetes schedules and automates container-related tasks throughout the 
    application lifecycle, including:

    Deployment: Deploy a specified number of containers to a specified host and 
    keep them running in a desired state.

    Rollouts: A rollout is a change to a deployment. Kubernetes lets you 
    initiate, pause, resume, or roll back rollouts.

    Service discovery: Kubernetes can automatically expose a container to the 
    internet or to other containers using a DNS name or IP address.

    Storage provisioning: Set Kubernetes to mount persistent local or cloud 
    storage for your containers as needed.

    Load balancing: Based on CPU utilization or custom metrics, Kubernetes 
    load balancing can distribute the workload across the network to maintain 
    performance and stability. 

    Autoscaling: When traffic spikes, Kubernetes autoscaling can spin up new 
    clusters as needed to handle the additional workload.

    Self-healing for high availability: When a container fails, Kubernetes can 
    restart or replace it automatically to prevent downtime. It can also 
    take down containers that don’t meet your health-check requirements.

K8s alternatives 
    Docker Swarm
    Nomad
    Rancher
    Amazon EKS
    Azure Kubernetes Service
    Google Kubernetes Engine

Kubernetes can also work with any container system that conforms to the 
Open Container Initiative (OCI) standards for container image formats and 
runtimes.